Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
♪ Through
My window. I knows ♪
♪ About the wind
When it blows ♪
♪ About the lights
From the road ♪
♪ And their Every
nightly glow ♪
♪ Guessin'’ oh How
they'’d explode ♪
♪ If she should
Decide to show ♪
♪ Up among this
Empty-handed nest ♪
♪ It'’s endless ♪
♪ Take my feet to the bar ♪
♪ Where I know you at not are ♪
♪ Take my coins
Place them there ♪
♪ Make that sound
I love to hear ♪
♪ '’Cause I have been
long Against this night ♪
♪ I'’ve been a mess
My whole life ♪
♪ And I don'’t care
What happens next ♪
♪ It'’s endless ♪
♪ Still the dawn
Fills with me ♪
♪ And my tongue
Fills with glee ♪
♪ And your ghost
Fills my sight ♪
♪ And the gathering light ♪
♪ Is lying soft
Around your feet ♪
♪ As you turn to ask of me ♪
♪ "Is it long. my
love Until we rest?" ♪
♪ It'’s endless ♪
I was not present
when my father died.
I arrived a week after.
He was sick. but his
death was unexpected.
He had agreed to a
day-long interview
to be conducted by
former students of his
in his apartments
in Old Montreal.
I forget why I
agreed to do this.
Tell me why I agreed to do this?
Monsieur Fife agreed to make the
interview because he'’s famous
- for something to do with cinema.
- Ah.
And famous people have
to make interviews.
Mm-hm.
Where'’s Emma?
I'’m here.
Hey.
You look wonderful.
I certainly don'’t feel calm.
Don'’t feel calm.
Oh. cherie.
Uh. we'’re ready.
One minute.
I need her fucking here.
She'’s the only reason I agreed
to do this goddamn thing.
If she'’s not there.
I'’m shutting it down.
- Emma'’s here. Emma's here.
- Right behind you. Leo.
You know. what I got to say.
I don'’t want to say it twice.
It'’s a lot easier to
say what I wanna say
if I know who I'’m talking to.
You'’re talking to
Malcolm. making a movie.
No. they'’remaking a movie.
Malcolm and Diana.
- Uh-huh.
- Professor Fife.
Ah.
You'’re blessed. yeah.
We'’ve arranged the place
for the interview there.
Um. you look great.
Yeah. I'’ve never looked better.
You remember your
fellow classmates?
Of course.
Malcolm and Diana.
Mr. and Mrs. Ken
Burns of Canada.
Don'’t be cruel.
We'’re used to it. Em.
Uh. Diana will be
behind the camera.
and this is our assistant
du jour. Sloane.
I have a last name.
Sloane Ambrose.
We have you right here on the X.
Um. yeah.
Perfect.
Okay. um. indicate
when you'’re ready.
As discussed. we want
to record your progress
from your arrival in
Canada as a draft refugee
through your career
as a filmmaker.
Um. we'’ve prepared a
list of 25 questions.
Your career is an emblem
of political filmmaking.
Ah. we'’re using
the camera technique
you pioneered.
Where'’s my wife?
I'’m here.
Consider it
a protégé'’s homage.
No objection.
And. also. we don'’t
have to finish today.
We can continue tomorrow.
Just sit there till I finish
telling everything. okay?
Yeah.
We'’ve worked up some
great questions for you.
Oh. I'’m sure you have.
Rene said you wouldn'’t begin
unless Emma was present.
Is it true?
Mostly true. yeah.
I might have done
it. but differently.
Why?
For the record.
What record?
I don'’t know.
Like giving testimony.
It'’s easier when
I say it to you.
Okay. let'’s begin.
Lights. please.
Leonard Fife.
December 22. 2023.
Leonard. I'’d
like to begin with...
The story begins...
the night of March 30th. 1968.
Richmond. Virginia.
That'’s when the poisonous
flower first bloomed.
My wife. Alicia. and I were
visiting her parents'’ home.
Goodnight.
Ooh. the baby'’s
restless tonight.
"There was once a
velveteen rabbit.
And in the beginning.
he was real splendid.
He was fat and bunchy.
as a rabbit should be.
His coat was spotted
brown and white.
he had real thread whiskers.
and his ears were
lined with pink sateen.
On Christmas morning..."
Oh.
Well. that was quick.
Can I listen?
Oh. I can hear him.
Hm?
Or her.
She'’ll be a girl.
And then we'’ll be
the perfect family.
mom. pop. son. daughter.
I wish I could stay.
Mm.
When'’s the flight?
It'’s first thing.
Don'’t wake up. I'll take a cab.
Give my best to
Stanley and Gloria.
What an unexpected couple.
Still together.
And I should be there by dinner.
Dad.
I'’m sorry. darlin'.
Leonard. join me for a
personal conversation
before dinner?
Sure.
Game
room. Have a snootful.
I'’ll be there in 15.
Leonard.
Come on in.
Have a seat.
Would you like an
excellent cigar
made by Cuban exiles?
You know what. actually.
I'’m trying to stop smoking
on account of
Alicia'’s pregnancy.
But. yes.
So. I gather
this is a crucial
moment in your lives.
For you and Alicia. I mean.
Yes. sir. you know. it'’s
a... uh. it'’s a big change.
For all of us.
It will be a long ways
away from Richmond.
but. uh. you'’ll have to come
visit us in Vermont sometimes.
Often.
I'’ve never been there.
Vermont.
Yeah. and we'’ll come down
and visit as often as possible.
Especially when I'’m
not teaching. you know.
when college is out and...
It'’s a good little
college. I hear.
Goddard.
One of those. uh.
progressive colleges
from Alicia'’s description.
Yes. sir.
My father has not told him
that he could stay on at
UVA for another three years.
He hasn'’t told Alicia either.
Come in.
I'’ve asked my brother.
Jackson. to join us.
Come on in. Jack.
pull up a chair.
Ben tells me
you'’re going north tomorrow.
Closed a deal on a place
you bought up there.
Yeah. that'’s correct.
I know.
You got yourself a
teaching job up there.
A long ways from your
children'’s grandparents.
Does your own family
still live up there?
Oh. they'’ve. uh.
they'’ve moved to Maine.
That'’s a damn long ways away.
Son. let me cut to the chase.
My brother and I have been
discussing a proposal.
a business arrangement
we'’d like you to consider
before you make
your big move north.
Beech and Nettleson
have bought out
a dozen family-owned health
and pharmaceutical companies.
They would like to
purchase Dr. Todd'’s.
The offer is substantial.
In the millions.
That'’s a problem.
W-what'’s the problem?
The next generation
is the problem.
It'’s all girls.
You have Ben'’s
one and my three.
None of my girls nor
the boys they married
is fit to run a lemonade stand.
We'’ve grown to like you.
Well. you hired a
private detective.
Just to check you out.
I'’d already told Alicia
I'’d been married before.
With a child.
We'’d like you
to consider a proposition
that Ben and I have been
discussing with our attorneys.
We'’d like you to hold
off on that purchase
of the place in Vermont
and join Dr. Todd'’s.
We'’d like you to consider
becoming an executive officer.
Not right away. of
course. but soon.
Mm. maybe very soon.
Chief executive officer.
Dr. Todd'’s would
be yours. Leonard.
Not Beech and Nettleson.
Company would stay
in the family.
Well?
What about it. son?
I-I'’m surprised and flattered.
I. uh. I never contemplated
working for Dr. Todd'’s.
let alone chief
executive officer.
Uh. I'’m just... I'm not
sure that my background...
If you'’re thinking of
your literary ambitions.
you don'’t need to give that up.
It'’s not a
full-time commitment.
T.S. Eliot was a banker.
Wallace Stevens ran
an insurance company
in Connecticut.
Herman Melville. your favorite.
he worked as a customs officer.
It'’s a long list.
My brother'’s done his homework.
Well.
I mean. that certainly
gives me a lot to. uh.
to think about. uh...
I'’d have to talk
to Alicia first.
You take your time.
take your time.
It'’s the biggest decision
you'’re gonna make in your life.
We can hold off
Beech and Nettleson
for another week or two.
I mean. I would probably
have to get a haircut.
shave the mustache.
Mm.
Okay. um... you give
me a week to decide.
Thank you. I'’m. uh.
I'm very grateful.
My head was still spinning
when I returned to
the guest bedroom.
As the Viet Cong mounted attacks
down the length
of South Vietnam.
the massive buildup of North
Vietnamese Army regular...
I told Alicia what her father
and uncle had offered me.
They what?
What do you mean?
How'’s Cornel?
Restless but fine.
Yeah. they. um...
Yeah. they told me that if
I came out as an executive.
they wouldn'’t sell Dr. Todd's
to Beech and Nettleson.
They would stay on
for a transition
and then...
basically turn the
company over to me.
Yeah.
They didn'’t talk about money
or stock options or anything.
I mean. not that that would
matter one way or the other.
- Wow.
Yeah. wow.
- Yes.
That'’s the last thing I
expected from those two.
I thought. you know.
to them I was. like.
from another planet.
Oh. you. honey.
They know you'’re smart.
They just have to
get used to you.
I just don'’t feel
comfortable with them.
I...
Their wealth. manners.
Genteel Southern white politics.
Just... I know
you feel the same.
Mm. Well. times change.
And people change.
Ah. Private detectives.
Don'’t be a broken record.
Dad must have talked
to Mom about this.
This would mean we
would live in Richmond.
But you never signed
a contract. right?
It was just a verbal agreement.
- You'’re kidding. right?
- Yes. of course.
Of course I'’m kidding.
Yeah.
It is a stunner.
Isn'’t it just a
wee bit tempting?
No.
No. not at all.
No. I'’d be drunk or dead
before I hit my mid-30s.
Oh. Dad barely spent five
hours a day at Dr. Todd'’s.
The company runs itself.
You could continue writing.
Vermont will be the summer home.
You really want me to take
this offer. don'’t ya?
No. of course not.
And I don'’t want you
not to take it either.
There would be support
with the children.
Enough money for private school.
We could build our own house.
You know what this offer is.
This means you have a family.
How'’d you leave it?
I told '’em I'’d
have to talk to you.
I said I'’d get back to them
after this trip to Vermont.
Well. it'’s a huge decision.
We'’ll sleep now.
sweetie. come to bed.
You have two flights
and a long drive
ahead of you tomorrow.
Yeah.
♪ A
coward this morning ♪
♪ Black after backing away ♪
♪ No explanation Could
ever explain it away ♪
♪ Could your bones
Be so bright? ♪
♪ Would it all be all right ♪
♪ If you laid them tonight ♪
♪ Ah. with me ♪
♪ Safe beside ♪
♪ Your arms can be magic ♪
♪ It all can be
magic You know ♪
♪ You all ways can have it ♪
Thanks.
♪ But
not like you wanted ♪
Breakfast?
Oh. no. no. I'’m eager
to get on my way.
Cornel woke me up.
Hey.
Thought I'’d bring him to
see his daddy for breakfast.
Good morning.
- Good morning.
Hi.
Oh!
Don'’t think about taking a cab.
I mean. there'’s really no point
in you driving all the
way out there and back.
It'’s a pleasant
ride to Byrd Field.
Do you want to use
Benjamin'’s shaver?
Honey.
That man is unstable.
Well. Daddy. of course he is.
What 22-year-old man isn'’t?
I wouldn'’t want him stable.
All right.
Oh. What do you think. Cornel?
- Hm?
Should I...
- Good.
- Oh. okay.
I won'’t be long.
I'’ll be right back.
♪ Sometimesy
ou have to be cruel ♪
♪ It'’s sad that it's sad ♪
♪ But don'’t let
that Dampen you ♪
♪ No. to live you must die ♪
♪ Yes. and more than one time ♪
♪ You must kiss it goodbye ♪
My father was
wearing a khaki jacket.
I didn'’t see him
again for 30 years.
Can we stop for a moment?
We don'’t have to
change cards yet.
This is for Sloane.
Sloane. the
microphone has fallen.
Just adjust the mic.
This time. run it
under the shirt.
She smells
like desire itself.
What do I smell like?
Especially to a young woman.
Can she pick up the
odor of the medications?
The anti-androgens
and the Taxotere.
And the bisphosphonates
that keep my bones from
breaking under my weight.
The smell of dried feces
clinging to my ass.
Tell me again why I came
home from the hospital.
Well. I'’m sure you'’re
a lot happier here.
Emma'’s nearby. and
everything'’s familiar.
Where the hell is my wife?
Sorry.
I had to step out.
I got a text on my phone I
had to answer right away.
Okay. Leo. um. I think we'’ve
gotten a little off track.
Yeah. you messed
with the continuity.
It'’s gonna look edited.
Sorry?
You go on talking.
I know most of the stuff.
some of it. anyway.
No. you don'’t. You
don'’t know any of it.
No.
Some of this I'’ve
never even told myself.
It'’s...
This is a gift to you. my love.
You will know me.
You'’ve been talking
for almost an hour.
Maybe you should take a break.
How old are you. Sloane?
Twenty-four.
Why?
Yeah.
When I was 22...
I'’d already been
married. fathered a child.
gotten divorced.
By the time I was your
tender age. Sloane.
I had... ruined my life.
Imagine if everything good
that could ever happen to you
has already happened.
You were a hero.
You stood up against
the war. the draft.
Does she
really believe that?
I wanna continue.
Turn on the camera.
Lights. please.
Let'’s go. come on.
Okay. let'’s pick
up from when you arrived
in Canada as a draft resister.
Leonard Fife.
December 22. 2023.
I changed planes
in Washington D.C..
Washington National
it was called then.
I had a cashier'’s
check for $23.000
from the Federal Reserve Bank
of Richmond in my pocket.
This was to pay for
the Vermont house...
the title to which
was to be held
solely by the Alicia
Violet Chapman Trust.
Perhaps that
eight-millimeter film
still exists somewhere.
proof that Leonard Fife
was seen. and filmed.
in Washington National Airport
on March 31st.
1968. 10:58 a.m.
Flight 291
is now boarding.
All passengers please
proceed to Gate Four.
This documentary
will make Leonard Fife
as big in the Canadian
collective memory
as Glenn Gould.
It will resurrect all his films.
It will make the public
rethink what it means
to be an artiste engagé.
From your position
against the war
to your most recent work.
It'’s a
token of respect.
Believe me. Leo will come
off as totally sympathetic.
It will be their film. Leo.
All set. Mr. Fife.
Have a great flight.
I felt suddenly giddy.
As if something was
about to happen.
A big reveal which will
affect everyone on the plane.
As if the plane is
about to explode.
and I would be
the sole survivor.
Wait.
You were smoking on an airplane?
This was 1968.
Ah. yeah.
Of course. sorry.
May I continue?
Please.
I grew up in Strafford.
About 20 miles northwest
of Boston proper.
I'’m. um. headed up to
Montpelier in Vermont.
Goddard College.
Oh. yeah. yeah.
that'’s a good school.
It is. yeah. I got a
teaching job there.
I'’m buying a place.
I should be back with the
car in a couple of days.
After college.
I headed south.
I met Amy in a bar
in St. Petersburg.
Amy was 18.
I was on my way to Cuba.
- Hi.
- Hey.
I never made it to Cuba.
We were married
four months later.
She was the sweetest thing.
She was already
a month pregnant.
She named our daughter Heidi
because that was
her favorite book.
True.
I was working on a novel.
You wrote a novel?
Ah. no. no. no.
It was just...
It was awful. shit.
Pretentious literary drivel.
No. I have no idea what
happened to the manuscript.
Things...
Things disappear. they get lost.
Left behind.
Like people...
you once loved. who loved you.
A writer.
Yes.
Like any self-absorbed
20-year-old man
who wants to be
regarded as a writer.
much more than he
wants to write.
Yeah. From Here to Eternity.
they call thatwriting.
Bullshit. you know.
I read that book in a day.
That'’s not...
that's not writing.
It'’s fucking... it's typing.
Who doesn'’t
know how to define love
because he'’s
never loved anyone.
I love you. Amy.
I love you. I promise.
I'’m never gonna
leave you. all right?
I promise. I love you.
- Please. Leo.
- I love you.
Please.
Maybe if he
says it enough.
he will feel it.
♪ Oh. stop ♪
♪ Don'’t worry about it ♪
Her name was Amanda.
♪ Stop ♪
♪ Don'’t worry about it ♪
But you'’re not listening.
you'’re not listening.
Without emotion. there
is no color. right?
And without color.
no emotion. okay?
- Franz Kline. right?
- Where'’s Amy?
- She'’s home.
- Franz Kline. Franz Klein.
Listen. if color is invisible...
is there no emotion?
Jesus.
Art is about
waiting. even in painting.
Take Leo here. he'’s waiting.
- No I'm not. I'’m not waiting.
- You'’re not writing.
- That'’s called waiting.
- I'’m writing.
- I'’m getting beer.
- He'’s writing. he's writing.
Okay? Look. look. history
is waiting. right?
Yeah? Leo. what are
you waiting for?
You'll never be a great
painter if you keep talking.
- Fuck off.
- I'’m waiting for. you know.
everything to just kind
of fall into place.
Yeah. right. there you go.
See? See? '’Cause art
doesn'’t have a subject. okay?
Documentaries have
subjects. all right?
What'’s that?
It'’s the novel
he's not writing.
"The first
move he ever made
was to crawl for the door.
and every move since."
Not bad.
Well... well. there'’s
more where that came from.
Can I have a ciggy?
Oh. this is... this is.
uh. Stanley Reinhart.
He. uh. he paints big.
Real big.
Amanda.
Clark.
Amanda was a jazz pianist.
She said she was the
mistress of Gerry Mulligan.
but he was always on the road.
Amy.
Amanda.
Alicia.
All those "A" s.
I made love
to Amanda once.
And Amy did not find out.
No consequences.
But I couldn'’t believe that
I wouldn'’t do it again.
And then. again.
Until Amanda has
fallen in love with me.
And Amy would find out.
Well. I'’ll tell her myself.
Or... or someone who knows
you or me will tell her.
and...
and then Amy won'’t have
any choice but to leave me.
Do you love her?
It'’s an impasse. then.
It'’s fine.
It'’s all right. Leo.
Now. come back to bed.
There'’s no other way
to escape two
unacceptable alternatives
than to create a third.
Stop. That'’s enough.
Stop this now.
He needs a break.
He'’s confused.
It'’s his medication.
I won a Genie
Award. and a Gemini.
We won an Oscar.
He confabulates
like he'’s dreaming.
It'’s wrong to be doing this.
Most of what he'’s saying
is either misremembered
or half-invented.
It'’s wrong to be
filming this. Malcolm.
even if you end up not using it.
I made a career...
from...
getting truth out of people...
that told me what they
wouldn'’t tell others.
And now.
it'’s my turn.
And I can'’t tell the truth
unless that camera'’s on.
and you are my witness.
This is my final prayer.
That whether or not
you believe in God...
you don'’t lie when you pray.
He seems to
want to continue.
Hit the lights. please.
Photography versus life.
Reality versus image.
Susan Sontag'’s On Photography.
Seminal work.
Six essays. I'’m sure
you've all read this.
If you haven'’t. you
will have. by next class.
Okay. Yeah.
"After the event has
ended." Sontag writes.
"the picture will still exist.
conferring on the event
a kind of immortality
that would never
otherwise have existed.
While real people are out there
killing other real people.
the photographer stays
behind his or her camera.
creating an image world that
bids to outlast us all."
Jamie. you wanna
turn the lights out?
Okay. Famous photograph.
Yeah. this was taken by
photojournalist Eddie Adams
the morning of
February 1st. 1968.
It shows the execution
of Vietcong prisoner
Nguyen Van Lem...
by General Nguyen Ngoc Loan...
on Ngo Gia Tu Street. Saigon.
This photograph won
Adams a Pulitzer Prize.
Van Lem will never die.
General Loan will never die.
Every time this
photograph is seen...
they'’re alive again.
Emma?
Ms. Flynn. you disagree?
There'’s another way to put it.
Van Lem isn'’t going
to be living forever.
He'’s going to be dying forever.
every time someone
shows that image.
One second!
Did you... did you
really not know this
about the wife in
Virginia. and the son.
and the other wife and the baby?
Jesus. Sloane.
Leave it alone.
He'’s mixing things together.
memories. films. fantasies.
other people'’s stories.
Emma knows the story of
Fife better than anyone.
She'’s been living
with him 30 years.
I know everything
I need to know.
Jesus. you'’re talking about me
like I'’m not in
the fucking room!
I can hear you!
Darling. I'’m sorry.
Right. It-it'’s not about the
meds either. she'’s wrong.
Emma is wrong.
She doesn'’t know everything
she needs to know.
You believe me. right. Rene?
Let'’s take a break.
No. No breaks. no. no. we work.
Come on. let'’s just keep going.
Can we do that?
Okay. Lower the lights.
Dark. I need dark.
You. get behind
your machine there.
Your... Errol Morris doohickey.
whatever you call it.
Interrotron.
Based on the technique
you pioneered.
Not me.
Sigmund Freud.
The interviewer'’s
not in the sight line.
It'’s that simple. right?
Uh. you position yourself
so that the subject
can only look directly
down the lens.
And if you'’re
silent long enough.
you'’re unseen long enough...
people will talk. they
can'’t help themselves.
Freud.
He was sitting there in his
chair next to the chaise.
He understood this very well.
Listen.
Wait.
Leo. do you need some water?
Yeah.
Yeah. I saw that...
documentary that you
made about Chernobyl.
Yeah. I could count
the inaccuracies
with eight fingers. one hand.
Leo.
Get him some water. Sloane.
I'’m just doing
what I always did.
spoke the truth. uh-huh.
But not you.
No. no. no. uh-uh.
You fraud.
I don'’t wanna see you anymore.
Fraud.
Fraud!
Yeah. I wanna see Emma up here.
I want my wife.
I want Emma!
Yeah. Put Emma on there.
Have a seat.
Lights.
I'’m here. Leo.
Yeah? Hi.
Okay. let'’s start
with In the Mist.
the documentary about
Dow Chemical testing
Agent Orange in New
Brunswick for use in Vietnam.
That put you on the map.
You almost went to jail for it.
The way from Boston
to Montpelier
led past The Fens and
north through Strafford.
the town where I was raised.
Your timing is always off ♪
♪ Bless you and keep you ♪
♪ Oh. brother ♪
I thought I might
want to write about it.
so I decided to stop
and pick up a map.
Please. I'’ve waited ♪
♪ Please. I'’ve waited ♪
♪ Please ♪
♪ I'’ve waited ♪
Mr. Leonard Fife!
Long time. no see.
Good to see you. Jimmy.
Times moves fast. huh?
Ah. well. not when you'’re
scoopin'’ ice cream. boss.
The regular?
Yeah. what was that?
Ah! Coffee and a bran muffin.
Buttered. heated.
All right. sounds good.
You know what?
You never told me.
What was Cuba like?
Cuba?
Leo.
Is everything okay?
Yeah. yeah. I hitched.
You hitched.
From college?
Pa. you'’ll have to hurry
if you'’re gonna
catch the 9:27 train.
We have a lot to talk about.
Listen to me. Leonard.
You can'’t walk out on the
world for being what it is.
You'’re 18.
and you'’re dismissing the
world because it'’s not
as idealistic as you are?
It may turn out.
in a decade or two.
you'’ll discover you
could have done more
to help the poor and oppressed
by staying in college
and getting your degree.
Or at least serving
your country.
Then wandering off
like some sort of hobo.
It'’s my decision. so-so please.
stop telling me why I
should stay in college.
Why should I become a doctor
or some kind of businessman?
Reverend. I imagine you
wanna comfort my mother.
since she'’s the one
who called you here.
Are you going out. Leo?
Don'’t worry. I'll be back.
I'’m not leavin' for good.
Not till after
Christmas. anyway.
Where will you go
after Christmas?
Where can you go after
you'’ve left college
and your home?
To Cuba.
Cuba.
What a grand idea.
Back when I was your age.
I came damn close to
running off to Spain
to fight with the
Lincoln Brigade.
Some of my friends did.
Had brilliant careers
ahead of '’em.
in spite of being communist.
Say. maybe you wanna
try a darker tie.
The ones that came back.
though. found it wasn'’t so easy
to pick up where they left off.
Things had changed.
Russkies. the Chinese.
Gotta run "toot sweet."
Look. You pick out a
couple of ties you like
for my brother-in-law.
You got good taste.
my son thinks one
hell of a lot of you.
Let'’s hope he doesn't
jump the traces
and follow you off to
Cuba. for Christ'’s sake.
I'’ll be back tomorrow.
You know. I wrote a
recommendation letter
to Rumford. don'’t you?
Yes. sir. I do.
Your parents are proud
of you. Leo. proud.
You'’re all they've got.
You decide to go
back to Rumford.
maybe I can make a few calls.
Come by the house.
We can have a few drinks
and talk this thing out.
man to man.
Promise me that?
That'’s-that's very generous
of you. Mr. Callahan.
I won'’t let you down.
No.
Happy New Year.
Oh. Tell Mr. Varney
I said hello. and...
don'’t forget to lock up.
Happy New Year.
Uh. wait a second.
I don'’t get it. this
doesn'’t make sense.
What? What don'’t you get?
There were... Give
me an example.
It all connects.
Well. the clothes.
for one thing.
The clothes you
lifted from the store.
gloves and Pendletons.
those are winter clothes.
Sounds like you were
going to Canada. not Cuba.
Did you ever make it to Cuba?
No. no. it was over
before I got there.
Um...
Florida.
I... I got as far as Florida.
The girl who got pregnant
with the baby Heidi?
Amy.
♪ I'’ll
tellt he world ♪
♪ That I'’m in love with you ♪
What about the
trip across the country?
Malcolm gave me a
copy of On the Road.
He told me you took
a trip like that.
Sloane!
That
was a cockful.
stupid thing. yeah. it was me.
My buddy. Nick De Fina.
So. he gave her a
copy ofOn the Road.
He'’s fucking her.
Yes. he is.
And Diana knows about it.
And Sloane thinks she doesn'’t.
She thinks she'’s in love
with this 50-year-old man.
Oh. he'’s fucking
her. all right.
Diana deserves better.
She is better than him.
Now. from page one.
we know how our
biography will end.
The subject dies.
But with an interview...
no. you can'’t be sure how
the thing will turn out.
Malcolm would be
nowhere without Diana.
He'’d be making
local TV commercials
in Winnipeg.
Or promotional docs for
Caribbean timeshares.
He convinced her he was
more talented than her.
How do I know?
So. where are you from?
Uh. well...
Because I
did the same thing
when I seduced her.
Yes. yeah. yeah.
Bonneil. my parents also.
Yeah. I love having
you in the class.
Oh. I love... I love
this opportunity.
it'’s. uh. it's so inspiring.
So. Nick. he. I don'’t know.
feeling guilty about
everything. I guess.
he goes to a priest.
he confesses.
about the car and
the blind bugger.
and the priest calls the cops.
So. that'’s the end of it.
the end of our big adventure.
We. uh... we go home.
I was never the same.
This is hard on me. Leo.
I mean. I know I'’m not
the one who'’s sick.
but this is like some
kind of post-mortem.
You'’re exhausted.
The meds are messing
with your mind. darling.
You'’re confused.
You'’re saying things that
shouldn'’t be said on camera!
Can we please just stop this now
and try again when
you'’re feeling better?
When am I feelin'’ better?
I'’m never feeling
better. you know that.
A priest turned you
and your buddy in.
I thought that...
We drove
across the country.
Made it all the way to
California. actually.
going to Australia.
We ended up there...
at a YMCA.
It'’s time to
change your bag. Mr. Fife.
You need to go to the restroom.
Let'’s take a break.
Sloane. get the mic. please.
Up!
That'’s it. Jacket.
All right.
Now.
Sidestep. nice and
easy. that'’s good.
Okay. pants.
And down.
That'’s good.
- Okay. All right.
- Okay.
Call me when you'’re
ready to be wiped.
Yes.
I could go silent.
the way I did when
I stopped eating.
Then I would disappear.
What'’s left of
me is in my brain.
When you have no future.
all you have left is your past.
And if your past is
a lie. like mine.
especially to those
closest to you.
a fiction...
then you can'’t exist.
except as a fictional character.
We'’ve got plenty
of good material.
Why don'’t we break for the day?
Or at least
for some lunch.
I can go make us
some sandwiches.
Why is he doing this?
What?
This.
He wants to confess.
What?
That he'’s a coward and
he never loved anyone.
Is it true?
No.
We'’ve got a lot of material.
Sometimes. you don'’t
know what you know
until you see it afterwards.
He never saw his son again?
He ran into Cornel in
Montreal at a screening.
I was there.
Rene?
You'’ve done so
much for him. Emma.
I'’ll go make us
those sandwiches.
If your doctor ever
asks you to stop by. don'’t.
Test results.
Cancer?
What kind?
Not the good kind.
You'’re a survivor. Leo.
We'’ll get through
this together.
We'’re a team.
Merry Christmas.
Happy Holidays.
Sontag and Freud died
over the holidays.
Excruciating deaths.
How can so much suffering
have no meaning?
Uh. okay.
Where'’s Emma?
Making some lunch.
Are you all right?
Yeah. I just... just give
me time to finish this.
I know you think
this is a fiction.
I don'’t care.
I don'’t care what
you do with my story
once I finish telling it.
I don'’t care.
Cut and splice it.
do whatever you want.
Yeah. I heard you
whispering. I'’ll be dead.
Do whatever you want with it.
But you will have witnessed
me telling my wife.
my beautiful wife.
what kind of man she married.
It will verify
that there was this intimacy
between a man and his wife.
This intimacy could
not have happened
without this camera
and this microphone.
Where is she?
Come on. it'’s a
natural. you and me.
I can make
documentaries. but you.
you have people skills.
I think we'’d make a great team.
Emma!
Emma.
Where is she?
Lunch is ready.
- Let'’s take a break.
- No. not now.
Let'’s go. Lights down.
Come on.
Come on!
Okay.
Hi.
Where were we?
Uh. you were
in Feeney'’s Pharmacy.
Feeney'’s. right. okay. yeah.
All right. yeah. I
stopped to get a map.
- Here you go.
- Thanks.
Montpelier was 150 miles
northwest of Strafford.
I missed the turnoff
for the interstate
and took U.S. 4 north.
Leo?
Are you all right?
No. no. I. um...
Wait a minute. I don'’t know.
starting in the wrong place.
I don'’t know where
the hell we are.
I'’m confused!
Now. uh...
Yeah. just. um...
You wanted to hear about
Into the Mist. right?
- Yeah.
It was a fluke.
Can you believe this?
Stop the war. Can I help you?
After I arrived in Canada.
I met a fellow from
Oklahoma. Ralph Dennis.
Where you from?
New England.
- Up here for a visit?
- Yeah.
Uncle Sam'’s after me.
You speak French?
Uh. like a year in high school.
So you'’re a guy
with all the talents
but no skill.
And you don'’t speak French.
and you don'’t own
any property here?
No.
Don'’t look good. brother.
You'’re gonna need landed status
if you wanna stay in Canada.
and that won'’t
happen in Quebec.
You need to get to a province
where they have use for Anglos.
I know this fellow who
manages a truck farm
in Gagetown. New Brunswick.
I work there in the summers.
You should come along.
It began as a lark.
Photograph the different
color dustings.
then make a psychedelic montage.
I thought it was trippy.
but it turned out it was a
secret American Army test
by Dow. of Agent Orange.
It was a scandal.
and I was a documentary
film director.
Then. I became a good
documentary film director.
Wait a minute. what
the hell'’s going on?
I don'’t think I...
Is the camera rollin'’?
What... What'’s goin' on?
I must sound like a madman.
one of those homeless
schizophrenics
wandering about.
muttering to themselves.
Maybe that'’s the
idea. maybe it'’s just
keep the camera
rollin'’ until...
Ol'’ Leo Fife
kicks the bucket...
on camera.
Where'’s Malcolm?
Uh. he'’s in the bathroom.
Come on. I ain'’t got all day!
Come on.
Malcolm and Diana.
You'’ll all be heroes.
Be the toast of Canada.
the whole bunch of you.
What a terrible
thing to say. Leo.
- Sorry about that.
- Yeah. welcome back.
All right. where were
we? Come on. let'’s go.
Okay. here we go.
Sloane?
Leonard Fife.
December 22. 2023.
Yeah. I rented a
car at the airport.
Yeah. that'’s a good school.
It is. yeah. I got a
teaching job there.
I'’m buyin' a place.
I should be back with the
car in a couple of days.
My plan was to stay over
at the painter Stanley
Reinhart'’s house.
a friend from Boston.
and his wife. Gloria.
♪ The
stars would know ♪
♪ To send you the shivers ♪
♪ The night would glow ♪
♪ In the room In
which you swim ♪
Stanley taught at Goddard.
He helped me get hired
and find a house.
♪ But
there'’s all of that doubt ♪
♪ And there'’s
All of that skin ♪
♪ But all is grace ♪
Hey. Leo!
Hey!
All is beauty ♪
- Welcome!
- Okay!
♪ And
when all this is gone ♪
♪ Beauty will remain ♪
Up here. check this out.
Wow.
Hey. man. I'’m sorry
I took so long.
Ah. don'’t
worry about it.
Is this some new work?
Uh. yeah. yeah.
I'’ve. uh. I've hit a
bit of a rough patch.
I'’ve. uh...
but you know. I like
workin'’ with my hands.
I always have.
And. uh. when I'’m
lookin'’ for inspiration.
I'’ve been choppin'
some wood. so.
I like to imagine the
wood stacked all neat
as I go to sleep. you know?
- Here you go.
- Thank you.
How'’s. uh. how's Gloria?
She'’s inside.
she'’s probably sleepin'.
Oh. she'’s in bed.
Yeah. Shit. I guess it
makes for a long story.
I. uh... I tried to get
her to go see a shrink.
I even said I'’d go with her.
She'’s got an answer for
everything. you know?
Mm.
The truth is. she'’s
a goddamn masochist.
'’cause the more she
hates me and this life.
the happier she becomes.
All right. A. uh. a masochist.
Yeah. man. it'’s the...
it'’s the way she talks.
I thought she found a lover.
Then. uh. she laughed
in my face. and. uh...
that night. I drove
down to Plainfield.
and I. uh. I laid
one of my students.
You know. you can'’t
keep going like this.
Well. if nothing improves
by next year. I'’ll...
I'’ll try and make
it in New York.
And what about the
students you'’re counseling
on avoiding the draft?
What. you'’re just... you'’re
just gonna abandon them?
They don'’t need me.
Even though I'’m the
only guy on the faculty
that served in the military.
the Canadian border is so close.
they could walk across.
The Canadians would welcome
them with open arms.
Right. but what about...
what about me and Alicia?
I mean. we'’re moving here.
I'’m bullshitting myself.
Besides. I'’m not ready
for the New York scene.
- Gloria.
- Ciao. Leo.
Stanley told me you were coming.
There was a phone call.
Alicia'’s mother?
I told '’em you
would call '’em back.
- Where is that?
- In the house.
Follow me.
I'’m sorry I missed it.
It'’s okay.
I'’ll fix you something.
- Yes?
- Hello. Benjamin.
This is. uh. this is Leonard.
Sorry. I just got in.
What'’s going on?
Stanley told me that.
uh. that Jessie called?
It'’s all right now.
We were scared for a while.
Did something happen to Cornel?
No. no.
Cornel is just fine.
He'’s sound asleep now.
Okay. what'’s...
what's going on?
- Leo? It'’s Jessie.
- Jessie. what'’s wrong?
Alicia'’s fine.
She miscarried this afternoon.
Jesus.
Is she. um. is. uh...
Is...
Is she all right?
Yes.
And. um. the... the fetus.
is the fetus...
It was a girl. Leo.
It wasn'’t right.
though. it was malformed.
the doctor said.
Dr. Gold. an excellent man.
- He'’s Jewish.
- Did she fall?
It came on very
quickly right after lunch.
She started hemorrhaging.
and we called the ambulance.
She'’s fine now.
It'’s probably a blessing
since the baby was.
well. you know.
She said to give you her love
and tell you she'’s
feeling fine. just tired.
Do you think I should
just. um. should I just...
Should I just leave for
Richmond right away?
I mean. should I leave tonight?
It'’s not necessary.
Everything is over
and done for now.
She'’ll call you tomorrow.
Just get yourself a
good night'’s sleep.
Thank you. thank you.
Jessie. and Benjamin. too.
Okay. goodnight.
Um. I'’m going to bed.
Hey.
Jeez. what a fucking shame. man.
What?
What are you... what
are you gonna do?
I don'’t know. she. uh...
She... she really wanted
that baby. and. uh...
And the house. and. God...
Yeah.
I guess I'’ll just leave
first thing in the morning.
- Yeah.
Okay.
Come here. man.
Give me a hug.
I'’m so sorry. man.
I'’ll set up the
cot for you. okay?
Okay.
Thanks. man.
I was nearly 30 when
I decided to find my father.
My mother never spoke of him.
It was easier than I thought.
Computers with data banks
had recently come in use.
I'’d often thought
about this drive.
Thinking about it
and actually doing it
are different things.
Suffer the Innocents
was about the actions
of Bishop McCann
and his subsequent
trial in Montréal.
The need to balance
society'’s obligation
to denounce and deter actions
like those of Bishop McCann
with the bishop'’s career
as a distinguished
spiritual leader...
- Satan!
- And educator.
Satan'’s spawn!
A monster sent from hell
to defile the innocent!
Did I say "defile"?
Fuck! That'’s what you did!
You fucked me!
You ate my childhood!
The amazing thing.
what everybody remembers.
is that you never pan
back to the judge.
You closed in on Bishop McCann.
...will be
required to report weekly
to a probation officer.
You are free to
leave this courtroom.
Ladies and gentlemen.
thank you for coming.
It'’s my pleasure to
introduce Montréal resident.
the filmmaker Leonard Fife.
Thank you. merci beaucoup.
Um...
Emma. come here.
My wife and my partner
in art and life.
Emma Fife.
Without her. I am nothing.
That one was
probably... what. Emma?
Two years we worked on that one?
Thank you. I appreciate it.
Congratulations. Dad.
What?
I'’m your son. Cornel.
- Who'’s this?
- It'’s Alicia's son.
That'’s right.
I'’m your son.
I don'’t have a son.
Stay away from me.
How'’s your mother?
She'’s good.
Uh. she remarried.
She'’s still in Richmond.
She has two children.
she has a good life.
And you?
- Married?
- Uh. yeah.
Uh. working at UVA.
Administration.
- That'’s in Richmond.
- Charlottesville.
So. he never told you?
I knew. in a fashion.
I don'’t know what to say.
I'’m sorry you had to see that.
I'’m happy I found him.
You know. I...
saw what I needed to see.
What was that?
Um...
Can I keep in touch with you?
Do you have an e-mail address?
Electronic mail.
Yeah. of course
I have an e-mail.
Still working things
out with the computers.
You like Montréal?
Yes.
We have a wonderful marriage.
He'’s faithful to me.
We'’re good together.
You'’ll tell him about our talk?
We'’ll see how that works out.
Are you sure he'’s
just sleeping?
He'’s very fatigued.
All creation starts
with a single cell of energy
that explodes with a bang
and becomes the universe.
Cancer starts the same way.
A single rogue cell breeds
a tumor that metastasizes
and sets to eating the body...
and eventually devours it.
That'’s enough. I
want you to leave.
You said this would
be a token of respect.
We have a contract with the CBC.
Fuck your contract.
He wanted to do this.
I never should'’ve agreed.
He'’s waking up.
- Stanley?
- No.
It'’s Gloria.
I brought you an extra blanket
'’cause it gets cold in
here when the fire goes out.
Thank you.
Is there any more wood
to put on the fire?
Yes.
Ah. that'’s great.
I hope Stanley and I talking
didn'’t keep you from sleeping.
The walls are thick.
Is he asleep now?
He'’s dead to the world.
Couldn'’t wake him if I
wanted to. and I don'’t.
Are you gonna leave him?
Yeah. probably.
For another man?
For another life.
Well. here'’s to your new life.
That was fucking scary.
Are you sure he'’s okay?
No. he'’s not okay.
I have to take him from you now.
Just want this pain to end.
Mm.
The cancer'’s appetite.
I'’m having so
many new thoughts.
Wonderful thoughts.
That'’s it.
Just... pack up and go.
Come.
Don'’t you dare.
Okay. okay.
Okay.
I'’m okay.
Hey.
Get this in the bedroom.
What do you want?
We'’re packing up.
Is there anything we can do?
No.
Just leave us.
I'’m applying a fentanyl patch.
What did they have.
the other men I respected?
What did I not do that Stanley
and Ralph and Nick did?
They served in the military.
Sixty-seven.
Again.
One thirty-eight.
All right. next.
Take this.
Mr. Fife. get dressed.
Meet me downstairs.
About 96.
Take a seat.
Your name?
Leonard Fife.
Date of birth.
I mean. it should all be there.
I'’m making sure
this is your file
and not some other idiot'’s.
Um...
March 27th...
March 28th. 1942.
Place of residence.
Strafford. Massachusetts.
Mr. Fife...
are you a homosexual?
No. sir.
No.
No. sir. no. no.
Enough.
You'’re 1-Y. Mr. Fife.
That means you'’ll
only be called up
in the case of
total mobilization.
Take this form and report
back to the sergeant.
Get your stuff and go home.
You'’ll receive your draft
card in the mail in a few days.
- Mr. Fife?
- Hm?
He felt as if being
pulled into a black hole
from which not even
light can escape.
He fights its pull.
He tries to stay here.
standing on the borderline
of one country and another.
between the past and present.
Toward evening. something
in his throat rattled.
He gasped.
His body twitched
as if to shake off a fallen leaf
or a feather.
♪ O Canada ♪
♪ Our home and native land ♪
♪ True patriot love ♪
♪ In all of us command ♪
♪ With glowing hearts
We see thee rise ♪
♪ The True North
Strong and free ♪
♪ From far and wide ♪
♪ O Canada ♪
♪ We stand on guard for thee ♪
♪ God. keep our land ♪
♪ Glorious and free ♪
O Canada.
♪ O Canada ♪
♪ We stand on guard for thee ♪
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm